Assalamualaikum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh.
Greetings to all of us.
Praise and gratitude let us pray to the presence of Allah SWT for bestowing His grace and gifts.
First of all, I would like to thank you for being given the opportunity to deliver a speech entitled "Education in the Covid-19 Pandemic Period".
Distinguished guests,
During this Covid-19 pandemic, education has changed drastically, the physical distancing policy to decide the forced distribution of changes 
from formal education in college to learning from home with an online system.
This pandemic causes everything to be done at home, for example lectures that apply a bold learning system.
This learning system is not carried out face to face or directly between lecturers and students, but is carried out through an online system and 
using the internet network.
With an online learning system or dare not imagine, there are many challenges in following the learning process.
First, students find it more difficult to understand the material that has been given, secondly, the internet network connection is one of the 
obstacles faced by students whose places of residence are difficult to access the internet.
Moreover, students live in rural areas and also not everyone can buy internet packages, because in this bold learning we use internet facilities more.
So that the tasks given by the lecturer and the explanation of the material through videos make students have to try to study harder, because it is 
felt that learning is less effective and makes students less understand the material presented.
Even so, students can re-learn the material that has been delivered, can search for information from the internet and can do practice questions.
The mistakes that are often made by students in bold learning are the temptation to access social media, watch videos, and play games.
Therefore, it is important for students to try to focus and be consistent in bold learning, even though they are in a pandemic period.
The positive impact of this bold learning is that it is more fun, flexible, short and time-saving than formal lectures.
So students can condition themselves as comfortably as possible to study effectively, bold learning also takes a lot of time for students which can 
be used to re-understand the material that has been given by the lecturer, take a break from hobbies, and other activities.
Thus, students can arrange the schedule of activities they will do.
But there are also many negative impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic on education and students.
First, not all students can study effectively like on campus, due to several factors such as not concentrating, and not understanding the material.
Second, many students underestimate education during a pandemic like this.
Third, students become lazy to read books and always depend on the internet in the future.
That's all I can say, I invite all my friends not to be lazy and to always learn during the pandemic.
That's all I can say, sorry if there are mistakes.
Wassalamualaikum warahmatullahi wabarakatuh.